---
title: "Optimal Power Distribution"
layout: post
---

This was a project I did with a group for the course Math 377, done in Fall 2023. 
The abstract is the following: 

Anna Kiesenhofer, an accomplished Austrian cyclist with a Ph.D. in applied mathematics,
demonstrated the efficacy of mathematical modelling in enhancing a cyclist’s time trial per-
formance. Her work sparked many others to research the topic. While utilizing differential
equations derived from Newton’s laws for cycling, some of these models overlooked physio-
logical constraints imposed by the human body. Building on Feng et al. [2022]’s work, our
research incorporates critical power (CP) and anaerobic work capacity (AWC) as vital phys-
iological concepts influencing race time. CP signifies the maximum sustainable power output
without fatigue, while AWC measures the energy a cyclist can exert beyond their CP. AWC
is finite, depleting during efforts exceeding CP and replenishing when cycling below it. This
paper consolidates mathematical insights from Feng et al. [2022], Boswell [2012], and Ashtiani
et al. [2019]. The resulting model is employed to train a reinforcement learning (RL) agent on
a course defined in PyGame. We compare results from the RL model with the optimal solu-
tion proposed by Boswell [2012], highlighting the robustness and versatility of reinforcement
learning in optimizing cycling performance.

[Accompanying Paper](https://github.com/tristongrayston/BikerGymEnv/blob/master/Optimal_Power_Distribution.pdf)
